https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-17505--Add Manage and Configure OS to Edge Manager (#7531)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: edge_manager/edge_mgr_manage_os_devices.adoc

Kubernetes Secret Provider:: Fetches a secret from a Kubernetes cluster and writes the content to the file system of the device.
HTTP Config Provider:: Fetches device configuration files from an HTTP(S) endpoint.
Inline Config Provider:: Allows specifying device configuration files inline in the device manifest without querying external systems.

Read more about the configuration providers in the following sections:

* <<config-git,Configuration from a Git repository>>
* <<config-k8s-secret,Secrets from a Kubernetes cluster>>
* <<config-http,Configuration from an HTTP server>>
* <<config-inline,Configuration inline in the device specification>>

[#config-git]
=== Configuration from a Git repository

You can store device configuration in a Git repository such as GitHub or GitLab.
You can then add a Git Config Provider so that the {rhem} synchronizes the configuration from the repository to the file system of the device.

The Git Config Provider takes the following parameters:

[%header,cols="1,3"]
|===
|Parameter|Description
|`Repository`|The name of a `Repository` resource defined in the {rhem}.

|`TargetRevision`|The branch, tag, or commit of the repository to checkout.

> |`Path`|The subdirectory of the repository that contains the configuration. *Important:* The root directory (`/`) is not writeable in `bootc` systems.
> 
> |`MountPath`|Optional. The directory in the file system of the device to which the configuration is written. By default, the value is the file system root `/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`Path`|The absolute path to the directory in the repository from which files and subdirectories are synchronised to the device's file system. This directory corresponds to the file system root `/` on the device, unless the `MountPath` parameter is specified (see below).

|`MountPath`|Optional. The absolute path to the directory in the file system of the device to write the content of the repository to. By default, the value is the file system root `/`.
```

|===

The `Repository` resource defines the Git repository, the protocol and access credentials that the {rhem} must use.
The repository needs to be set up only once.
After setting up, the repository can be used to configure individual devices or device fleets.

[#config-k8s-secret]
=== Secrets from a Kubernetes cluster

> The {rhem} can query the Kubernetes cluster that it is running on for a Kubernetes secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {rhem} can query the Kubernetes cluster _that it is running on_ for a Kubernetes secret.
```

We might want to emphasise that - currently - _only_ the Kubernetes cluster that RHEM is running on (= the ACM Hub Cluster) can be used, not any external one.

Author: We can't italicize text. However, what about:
> The {rhem} can query only the Kubernetes cluster that the {rhem} is running on for a Kubernetes secret.

The HTTP Config Provider takes the following parameters:

[%header,cols="1,3"]
|===
|Parameter|Description
|`Repository`|The name of a `Repository` resource defined in the {rhem}.

|`Suffix`|The suffix to append to the base URL defined in the `Repository` resource. The suffix can include path and query parameters, for example `/path/to/endpoint?query=param`.

|`FilePath`|The path to the file on the device file system that stores the returned value of the HTTP Server.
|===

The `Repository` resource specifies the HTTP server for the {rhem} to connect to, and the protocol and access credentials to use.
The repository needs to be set up once and then, the repository can be used to configure multiple devices or device fleets.

[#config-inline]
=== Configuration inline in the device specification

You can specify configuration inline in a device specification.
When using the inline device specification, the {rhem} does not need to connect to external systems to fetch the configuration.

The Inline Config Provider takes a list of file specifications, where each file specification takes the following parameters:

[%header,cols="1,3"]
|===
|Parameter|Description

> |`Path`|The absolute path to the file on the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`Path`|The absolute path to the file in the file system of the device to write the content to.
```

[#manage-os-config]
= Operating system configuration

> You can include an operating system-level host configuration in the image to provide maximum consistency and repeatability.

Author: When saying "repeatability", does it refer to deploying/updating with the same image on multiple devices?

Reviewer 2: Yes - ensuring all devices have that same configuration

> To update a configuration, you create a new operating system image and update devices with the new image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update this configuration, you create a new operating system image and update devices with the new image.
```
(to make clear the statement only refers to configuration included in the image.)

However, updating devices with a new image can be impractical in the following cases:

* The configuration is missing in the image.
* The configuration needs to be specific to a device.
* The configuration needs to be updateable at runtime without updating the operating system image and rebooting.

> For these cases, you can declare a set of configuration files that can be present on the file system of the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For these cases, you can declare a set of configuration files that shall be present on the file system of the device.
```
You're declaring a desired state, not a possibility.

Author: I changed it to:
> For these cases, you can declare a set of configuration files that *is* present on the file system of the device.

The {rhem} agent applies updates to the configuration files while ensuring that either all files are successfully updated in the file system, or rolled back to their pre-update state.
If the user updates both an operating system and configuration set of a device at the same time, the {rhem} agent updates the operating system first, then applies the specified set of configuration files.

> You can also specify a list of configurations sets that the {rhem} agent applies in sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also specify a list of configuration sets that the {rhem} agent applies in sequence.
```

In case of a conflict, the last applied configuration set is valid.

*Important:* After the {rhem} agent updates the configuration on the disk, the configuration must be activated.

> Running applications need to reload the new configuration into memory for the configuration to become effective.

Reviewer: Is it clear that "activation" = "reloading the new configuration into memory, such that it becomes effective"? Otherwise, maybe a colon would help?

```suggestion
*Important:* After the {rhem} agent updates the configuration on the disk, the configuration must be activated: Running applications need to reload the new configuration into memory for the configuration to become effective.
```

Author: Or we can just remove "the configuration must be activated" from the sentence and merge the two so it's clear what needs to be done:
> After the {rhem} agent updates the configuration on the disk, the running applications need to reload the new configuration into memory for the configuration to become effective.

//TODO Add link: For more information on device lifecycle hooks and the default rules used by the {rhem} agent, see xref:../[Device lifecycle hooks].

[#config-providers]
== Configuration providers

You can provide configuration from multiple sources, called configuration providers, in {rhem}.
The {rhem} currently supports the following configuration providers:

Git Config Provider:: Fetches device configuration files from a Git repository.
Kubernetes Secret Provider:: Fetches a secret from a Kubernetes cluster and writes the content to the file system of the device.
HTTP Config Provider:: Fetches device configuration files from an HTTP(S) endpoint.
Inline Config Provider:: Allows specifying device configuration files inline in the device manifest without querying external systems.

Read more about the configuration providers in the following sections:

* <<config-git,Configuration from a Git repository>>
* <<config-k8s-secret,Secrets from a Kubernetes cluster>>
* <<config-http,Configuration from an HTTP server>>
* <<config-inline,Configuration inline in the device specification>>

[#config-git]
=== Configuration from a Git repository

> You can store device configuration in a Git repository such as GitHub or GitLab.
> The {rhem} synchronizes the configuration from the repository to the file system of the device by adding a Git Config Provider.

Reviewer: "by adding a Git Config Provider" seems to refer to "The {rhem} synchronizes" here, while it should refer to the "You can". Maybe:

```suggestion
You can store device configuration in a Git repository such as GitHub or GitLab. You can then add a Git Config Provider, so that the {rhem} synchronizes the configuration from the repository to the file system of the device.
```

The Git Config Provider takes the following parameters:

[%header,cols="1,3"]
|===
|Parameter|Description
|`Repository`|The name of a `Repository` resource defined in the {rhem}.

|`TargetRevision`|The branch, tag, or commit of the repository to checkout.

|`Path`|The subdirectory of the repository that contains the configuration.

> |`MountPath`|Optional. The directory in the file system of the device to which the configuration is written. By default, the value is the file system root `/`.

Reviewer 2: @fzdarsky Are we removing this parameter?  If so, we should do it now

Reviewer: I'm somewhat on the fence, TBH. I acknowledge there are use cases where this param is useful and so wouldn't remove it from the API. Still, we should find a solution that we don't confuse users, especially UI users that aren't technical or technical but not familiar with K8s.

I'm wondering whether the solution is to better explain this param and the relationship to the `Path` param instead. I'm adding what _might_ work as suggestion.

The Kubernetes Secret Provider takes the following parameters:

[%header,cols="1,3"]
|===
|Parameter|Description
|`Name`|The name of the secret.

|`NameSpace`|The namespace of the secret.

|`MountPath`|The directory in the file system of the device to write the secret contents to.
|===

*Note:* The {rhem} needs permission to access secrets in the defined namespace.
For example, creating a `ClusterRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` allows the `flightctl-worker` service account to get and list secrets in that namespace.

//TODO add link: For more information about granting {rhem} permissions, see xref:..[RBAC].

[#config-http]
=== Configuration from an HTTP server

The {rhem} can query an HTTP server for configuration.
The HTTP server can serve static or dynamically generated configuration for a device.

The HTTP Config Provider takes the following parameters:

[%header,cols="1,3"]
|===
|Parameter|Description
|`Repository`|The name of a `Repository` resource defined in the {rhem}.

|`Suffix`|The suffix to append to the base URL defined in the `Repository` resource. The suffix can include path and query parameters, for example `/path/to/endpoint?query=param`.

> |`FilePath`|The path to the file on the device file system that stores the returned value of the HTTP Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`FilePath`|The absolute path to the file in the file system of the device to write the response of the HTTP server to.
```

Reviewer: (For consistency with the equivalent fields in other providers.)
